Type of Physics interested in:

I have an interest in both Theory and Experimental. My interest in theory arises from the background of courses I have taken in my undergraduate career, majority of which have been theoretically driven, including multiple pure math courses taken out of an interest for the subjects (Algebra and Geometry). For this reason, I find myself interested in working in a theory based environment and I am motivated to attempt and apply the mathematics I have learned in a physics based setting. On the other end hand, my interest in experimental physics is purely from my past experiences at SNOLAB and TRIUMF, and are particularly in the coding and simulation work. Some of the work I did at TRIUMF was in simulation with GEANT4, a simulation software that uses C++, and I found it amazing that we could simulate interactions of particles using just lines of code and experimentally known results.

Which Area of Physics:

I am primarily interested in Particle physics and General Relativity. My interest in particle physics is from my previous internships, and my interest in General Relativity is from my electives in the pure math subjects of geometry. My curiousity in particle physics is experimental and theoretical, as I find the algebraic structure of the standard model to be one of an interesting nature. Having particles pop out of symmetries is the pinnacle of applications from the mathematical subject of algebra! As for the experimental, I find working with the coding and simulations really interesting. Finally my interest in General Relativity is from my courses in smooth manifolds and differential geometry.

Where did you hear about this?

Working at SNOLAB, and on DEAP in particular, I heard of the partnered universities in the project, and of course Queen's was mentioned. It also happened that my supervisor at the time, Chris Jillings, did his PhD at Queen's under Art Mcdonald. Hence, I naturally came to hear of the physics graduate research at Queen's University from my work environment.


Statement of Interest

My main goal in a graduate position at Queen's is the pursuit of research in a meaningful way. That is to say, physics research is my main goal, and a Master's position with the Queen's physics group would be a very strong entrance into the research world of physics. Queen's association with SNOLAB means it holds a certain esteem in the physics world, and having already held an undergraduate position at SNOLAB, I find myself attracted to the prospect of graduate position at Queen's University. This leads into my interest in the research. With two particle physics undergraduate research positions in my history, I find the research at Queen's in this particular field exactly that which I have experience in. Having worked under a dark matter search experiment, DEAP, and with a neutrino osccilations experiment, T2K, I find my experience quite fitting with the research done in particle physics at Queen's. Moreover, I find the search for dark matter an amazing endeavour, as it embodies the search of the unknown very well. The fact that majority of the mass in the observable universe is of unknown origin is beyond intregueing. Having still not even detected any of the dark matter candidates points towards many experiments yet to come, with interesting theory to back. The discovery of the neutrino mass is also a very interesting research subject, as it pokes a hole in the standard model and give another mystery for physicists to tinker with, and I find the entire idea of neutrino osccilations incredible. Dark matter and neutrino physics experiments are at the forefront of physics and hence a very interesting field to be in. My work experience in research has been at SNOLAB with the DEAP collaboration, and at TRIUMF with the T2K group. At SNOLAB I worked primarily on PMT (photomultiplier tubes) calibration characterization. This meant majority of my work involved working in C++ or Python and using ROOT to manage data. I was also responsible for updating the calibration data analysis software such that it would work on a new computing cluster, and added dark rate as a measure in the software. My second research position envolved me doing some hardware work with checking 3-inch PMTs, and casting them in preperation for building the multi-PMT prototype that will be used in the NuPrism extension of T2K. I was also attempting to build a method of tracking and seperating events in a simulation of the extension which ranged from trying a maximum likelihood approach to a Hough transform and reconstructing tracks in GEANT4. 
