1. Research Experience (about 1 page, max 2 pages)
Describe your previous research experience, and how it is relevant to your graduate school goals. As specifically as possible:

explain the research in terms that a trained scientist not familiar with the research can understand

describe your own role in the research, indicating any collaboration with other researchers, and the form of that collaboration

discuss the significance, relevance and impact of your work, including any publications or conference presentations that resulted from your efforts

describe the significance of your research experience in terms of demonstrating your research leadership

discuss the impact and importance of these activities in terms of your career aspirations.

This element speaks directly to the following selection criterion: Research potential and leadership (potential and demonstrated ability).

2. Statement of Academic Goals (about 1 page, max 2 pages)
Please provide a detailed description of your research interests in up to three research areas; it is up to you whether to focus your presentation on a single area with greater detail or on several. We will be judging you on the quality of your presentation. You are not bound to pursue these particular areas at UBC.

Be as specific as possible. Provide background information to support your interest in these particular areas, explain what you believe are the crucial questions to answer in these areas, substantiate what attracts you to these fields and how your background positions you to contribute to answering these questions.

Your communication skills are reflected by the clarity of the statement and speak to the research potential and leadership (potential and demonstrated ability) selection criteria.

When writing your statement of research interests, employ the citation style common to your field of research. Do not use more than one citation style. Footnotes should be employed for citation purposes only, and should not elaborate on the information contained in the two-page statement.

3. Leadership Experience (about 1 page, max 2 pages)
Write a self-assessment detailing your academic and non-academic activities/accomplishments, your leadership activities, and why you judge yourself to be an excellent candidate for a graduate position at UBC in Physics and Astronomy. This description should go beyond a simple list of accomplishments.

Outline for the committee the ways in which these accomplishments demonstrate your leadership abilities and skills.

Describe how your leadership skills have contributed to your accomplishments, for example:

How you have created opportunities beyond those that were immediately available to you (due to employment, volunteerism, or circumstance);

How you have motivated others to willingly collaborate on a project or enterprise;

How you have taken on responsibility for a group, or any other ways in which you have effected change.

For those whose Leadership experiences originate in work or volunteer opportunities, provide context for the selection committee that demonstrates how your contribution went beyond the expectations of your work/volunteer position. Your communication skills are reflected by the clarity of your application, which speaks to your leadership potential and demonstrated ability.

4. Bibliography (no page limit)
Enter the bibliography for your statements research experience and academic goals. You must use this section to list publications and other works/sources that are cited in your statements above.