
I have had two main positions of research. My first research position was during the Fall of 2017, from September to December, at SNOLAB in Sudbury, Canada. SNOLAB is a physics research facility primarily focused on particle physics experiments with a labratory that is two kilometers underground and provides a unique low background noise environment. I worked under Chris Jillings and Pierre Gorel on the DEAP experiment, a Dark Matter experiment that uses Argon as a scintillator. Majority of my work was done in C++ and on the detector calibration.

My second research position was at TRIUMF during the summer of 2018, from May to August, in Vancouver, Canada. TRIUMF is also a particle physics research facility and currently has the worlds largest cyclotron. I worked under the supervision of Thomas Lindner and Mark Scott. I worked with the T2K group, a neutrino experiment based in Japan. My work was primarily on working with the GEANT4 simulation software for an extension that is being added to the T2K experiment, and checking if path reconstruction could be done quickly.

After having done two experimental research positions in physics, I have taken and interst in doing a more theoretical based internship with the intent of exploring more research options. I have particularly taken an interest in pure mathematics and the field of geometry. I have taken courses accordingly and greatly enjoy the subject. As such, I would be interested in working with a Geometry/Topology group at IST.

I have already contacted professor Herbert Edelsbrunner and professor Tamas Hausel, both of whom work in this area of mathematics. Professor Edelsbrunner has responded positively and has said he would welcome me to his group with the intention of me learning Geometry and Topology for the three month period. Professor Tamas Hausel has described a possible project that he would be accepting students for aswell.

My interest IST initially stemmed primarily from the location and availability. As I will be completing my undergraduate degree in April, there are many internships that will not accept students solely because they are not in an academic program over the summer. This is one of the few internships that accepts students in this intermediate period where I will be between my Bachelor and Master's. After having done some research, I have found that I am actually quite interested in the work done in the Geometry and Topology department, and specifically with the Edelsbrunner group. I have looked through some papers published by the Professor Edelsbrunner and have found that I would be more than interested in working with the group on the Geometry/Topology subjects.
