
Background

Majority of my research experience has been in the field of particle physics. During the Fall of 2017, I worked at SNOLab as a research assistant under the supervision of Christopher Jillings. All of my work involved managing data collected by the DEAP colloboration on site, and was primarily done in C++ and python. I was given the oppertunity to work in an environment with a large collaboration, and understand the work required to run such large experiments. In the summer of 2018, I worked as a research assistant at TRIUMF under the supervision of Thomas Lindner and Mark Andrew Scott. In this case, though I worked primarily in C++, I worked more with simulations of an upgrade that T2K is planning on building for their detector. In this case, I got the oppertunity to work on a project that was still being developed and gave me the chance to learn more physics and mathematics on the way.

Why McGill?

A portion of my attraction towards McGill is the campus and location. Having visited the campus, I found myself enjoying the sights more than I have at most other universities. The campus is beautiful and sits in the heart of Montreal, providing a wonderful city life with many events to attend. The larger reason for me applying to McGill is for the research being done in mathematics. In particular, during my visit to McGill, Professor Niky Kamran gave me the opportunity to sit down with him and discuss his research for an hour or so, just so that I could get a feel for the work being done by himself at this university. During the hour, we discussed the differences between applying for a masters of mathematics as opposed to a masters of physics, and Professor Kamran was able to shed some light on many uncertainties I have had in the process of applying for a masters. One such insecurity that Professor Kamran helped address, was the subject of interest.

I have always found Physics and Mathematics to be interesting, each for their own reasons. Initially, I tended towards physics, as it seemed to provide a field of study that would help provide an intuition for the underlying mechanisms of everyday occurances. It is fun to understand why physical phenomena occur. As my undergraduate career progressed, however, the enjoyment in physics began to fade. This is largely in part due to never completely understanding all of the mathematics behind more complicated physical theories. Counter to this, my enjoyment for mathematics began to increase proportional to my disinterest in physics. Where physics would never explain the mathematics to completion, mathematics would provide consistent enjoyment in new subjects. 

This change in perspective came to fruition with talking to Professor Kamran. I had already been taking pure math courses out of interest up to this point, differential geometry, group and rings, and was taking an Introduction to Smooth manifolds course at the time, so Professor Kamran was able to guide me to seeing that my true interests, and enjoyment, lie in doing mathematics. All that remained was the subject of interest. Considering Professor Kamran has work in Geometry, and my most recent course in Pure Mathematics was in exactly that field, I felt a natural inclination towards the subject. I spent the rest of the term attending geometry seminars on campus at the university of Waterloo, and approached my Geometry lecturer, Professor Ruxandra Moraru, about research in geometry. Hence, I would like to work under Professor Kamran in Differential Geometry.

Final Goal?

My goal with a masters application in mathematics is to continue to learn geometry while having an opportunity to conduct research in the field as well. The final goal is to conduct research at the forefront of geometry. Thus, this master would serve as a method of reaching that goal of truly contributing to the field of geometry, as it would give me the appropriate experience and still give the opportunity to continue learning. Furthermore, the Mathematics faculty of McGill would provide an excellent environment to pursue this path, which I have learned after visiting the university and talking to Professor Niky Kamran.


draft


My goal with a masters application in mathematics is to continue to learn geometry while having an opportunity to conduct research in the field as well. The final goal is to conduct research at the forefront of geometry. Thus, this master would serve as a method of reaching that goal of truly contributing to the field of geometry, as it would give me the appropriate experience and still give the opportunity to continue learning. Furthermore, the Mathematics faculty of McGill would provide an excellent environment to pursue this path, which I have learned after visiting the university and talking to Professor Niky Kamran.

In particular, during my visit to McGill, Professor Niky Kamran gave me the opportunity to sit down with him and discuss his research for an hour or so, just so that I could get a feel for the work being done by himself at this university. During the hour, we discussed the differences between applying for a masters of mathematics as opposed to a masters of physics, and Professor Kamran was able to shed some light on many uncertainties I have had in the process of applying for a masters. One such insecurity that Professor Kamran helped address, was the subject of interest.

I have always found Physics and Mathematics to be interesting, each for their own reasons. Initially, I tended towards physics, as it seemed to provide a field of study that would help provide an intuition for the underlying mechanisms of everyday occurances. It is fun to understand why physical phenomena occur. As my undergraduate career progressed, however, the enjoyment in physics began to fade. This is largely in part due to never completely understanding all of the mathematics behind more complicated physical theories. Counter to this, my enjoyment for mathematics began to increase proportional to my disinterest in physics. Where physics would never explain the mathematics to completion, mathematics would provide consistent enjoyment in new subjects. This became all the more clear while I was taking Geometry of manifolds with professor Ruxandra Moraru. 

Majority of my research experience has been in the field of particle physics. During the Fall of 2017, I worked at SNOLab as a research assistant under the supervision of Christopher Jillings. All of my work involved managing data collected by the DEAP colloboration on site, and was primarily done in C++ and python. I was given the oppertunity to work in an environment with a large collaboration, and understand the work required to run such large experiments. In the summer of 2018, I worked as a research assistant at TRIUMF under the supervision of Thomas Lindner and Mark Andrew Scott. In this case, though I worked primarily in C++, I worked more with simulations of an upgrade that T2K is planning on building for their detector. In this case, I got the oppertunity to work on a project that was still being developed and gave me the chance to learn more physics and mathematics on the way.
